.github/readme.md, before:

# Tic Tac Toe in Scala

Welcome to a simple implementation of the classic game, Tic Tac Toe, written in Scala 3.

## Overview

This project uses a functional object-oriented style. The emphasis is on immutability and minimizing side effects, which aligns well with functional programming principles. Side effects are allowed for printing and getting input from the user, but they are kept away from the logic. The "architecture" ensures a clear separation of business logic from I/O operations, making the core logic easily testable.

**Project Structure:**
- `Tictactoe.scala`: Contains the core game logic.
- `main.scala`: Deals primarily with I/O operations to interact with the player.

It's worth noting that only `Tictactoe.scala` has been unit-tested (using mUnit), as it encapsulates the business logic of the game.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Scala Version: 3.3.0
- sbt (for building, running, and testing)

### How to Play

1. Clone the repository.
2. Navigate to the project directory and run the game using sbt:
    ```
    sbt run
    ```
3. Follow the on-screen prompts to play the game:
    - You'll be asked to choose a row (0, 1, or 2) and then a column (0, 1, or 2).
    - Players take turns choosing positions on the board.
    - The game ends when one player gets three in a row, column, or diagonal, or when all positions on the board are filled, resulting in a draw.

## Tests

The game comes equipped with unit tests to ensure its logic and functionality are accurate. To run the tests, use the following command:

```
sbt test
```

May the best player win!

---

Commit message:

adapt readme for cross building

.github/readme.md, after:

# Tic Tac Toe in Scala

Welcome to a simple implementation of the classic game, Tic Tac Toe, written in Scala 3.

## Overview

This is a simple Tic Tac Toe game built with Scala 3, exploring cross-compilation for JVM, JavaScript, and Native platforms. The project aims to demonstrate a functional programming approach, particularly using the IO monad for managing side effects. It's aim is also to explore cross compiling to both native and JS. In particular, using Scala to write libraries that are consumed by JS.


**Project Structure:**
- `shared/src/main/scala/Tictactoe.scala`: Contains the core game logic.
- `jvm-native/`: All the code for both the JVM and native.
- `js/src/main/scala/`: Code to bridge scala types with typescript.
- `js/src/main/typescript`: Typescript code for the frontend.


# Getting Started

## Prerequisites
* Scala 3.3.0
* sbt for building and running the project
  
## How to Run

Depending on your target platform, do one of the following:

* For JVM: clone repo `sbt tictactoeJVM/run` after cloning the repo.
* For JavaScript: Web component available through [JSDelivr](https://www.jsdelivr.com/package/npm/scala-tictactoe). You can build it from scratch by running `sh jsBuild.sh`, this is mostly handy if you're changing something on the Scala side of the project. If it's just styling then `npx rollup -c` is enough.
* For Native: `sbt tictactoeNative/run` or run the Linux binaries from `tictactoe-out`.

## Platform Details
* JVM and Native: These versions focus on basic console-based interaction. The Native build supports direct execution on Linux.
* JavaScript: Integrates Scala.js for the logic, providing a TypeScript interface and a web component for browser use. It's published on npm as [scala-tictactoe](https://www.npmjs.com/package/scala-tictactoe).

## Tests

It's worth noting that only `shared` has been unit-tested, as it encapsulates the logic of the game. To run it should do `sbt tictactoeJVM/test`. Testing the core logic with native also works but compile times are longer. Testing the core with scala.js doesn't work, it would require extra setups. Considering the semantics of the 3 platforms are the same it should be similar.


## Note
This project is experimental, focusing on cross-compiling Scala code. The structure might need refinement, but it serves as a solid proof of concept.

May the best player win!

---
